---
layout: post
title: Week 14
---

# Week 14: Final thoughts and moving forward :crying:
Hi! This is my week fourteen blog post for Open Source Software Development! :tada: If you're reading this professor, thank you for the wonderful semester! 

## Final Presentations
This week we did our final presentations! Each group talked about the project they've been contributing to and their experience with doing so. It was really interesting hearing about the ups and downs each group experienced with their contributions (and admittedly a relief to know we weren't the only ones who ran into an issue or two). One thing in particular which stood out to me was the larger amount of individual work most groups had in comparision to ours. While we did do work outside of our meetings, a good chunk of our work was done as a group, and even alone we were still working on the same issues and updating the other two in the discord as we went along. As a result we didn't work on as many issues as a whole which initially I was a tad dissatisfied about. However, when we were practicing our presentation Camilo mentioned that we still did good work for the time given and that we shouldn't be so down about the number of issues we did since the larger project justified working together on an issue. I still wish we could've done more (and all three of us want to moving forward) but I did feel alot better when he mentioned that. Even though we were primarily working as a group, I don't think there was ever an issue where any of us were excluded or just doing the same work over again. All the research we did helped us get to a solution and having three people looking through the code made it far easier to get to where we needed to be. I remember in my previous group project alot of it was done as a group but there was this sort of issue where we were all coding simultaneously and we just used the code of whoever finished first, which while maybe inevitable, sort of felt like it should've been a one-person job just done by three people simultaneously. But in this scenario that was never the case, there was so much to look through that even with the same issue, we weren't all quite doing the exact same thing.

## Final Project
It's something I mentioned a bit in my last to blogs but while we were able to make a good amount of progress under the circumstances I do think if I had to redo this final I probably would've preferred to work on a project with a slightly smaller community. I don't think Blender's is objectively worse, but I did find it rather overwhelming to get into given the time frame and even more so as a first open source project and the first time working with such a large code base overall. Past all the searching we had to do in the code to solve small issues, I feel the biggest struggle we had was with communication. Due to being such a large community, helping every newcomer just isn't feasible, and while as a community Blender is relatively respectful, it's inevitable that some issues will get brushed over especially since with so many people there's someone who can fix it with out the help. It's certainly a project where you have to be really independent, and as I mentioned that's not inherently bad but I feel makes it a less than ideal project just for the constraints of this class. That being said I am happy we we're able to contribute to something like Blender, it was really cool to see our edits affect such a complex software that we use ourselves, and I do feel it was a good project overall; I may not choose it again but I'm not exactly unhappy I did, if it's possible I hope I'll be able to keep contributing and become more comfortable working in such a large and busy environment.



