---
layout: post
title: Week 10
---

# Week 10: How business models use opensource and an update on finals 
Hi! This is my week ten blog post for Open Source Software Development! :)

## Business models around opensource
I hope this isn't too redundant, but I feel each week I learn more about just how prominent opensource practices are within software development. As I mentioned previously one of the biggest things I've learned in this class was how strong the inherent strengths of open source are as well as how often it's used, but even then one of the things that really surprised me about the readings was the fact that it's not only used in 64% of companies, but is predicted to become used far more going into the future. With what we've learned throughout the year, I'm not surprised that it's commonly used in general, but in companies where there's a greater concern for profit, even though the benefits are there, I figured it'd be less common to see despite being used more as time goes on. That being said, seeing the explanation about how the Linux project greatly assisted in the growth of opensource projects as well as quelling concerns that many companies had on it not being as viable made alot of sense.
Besides that, I found it really interesting to see the different ways which companies are able to utilize the strengths of opensource while still providing a product that allows them to profit. Previously I understood why a business generally might want to use it to take advantage of its strengths but didn't exactly know how a company could still profit assuming the software itself was the product. One model that stuck out in particular to me was the idea of paid additional features. While I think this is a viable way to make use of opensource and still profit, I feel that in some situations, it can potentially result in basic acessibility being behind a paywall. For example, Twitter recently introduced Twitter Blue, a paid subscription which allows users access to additional features on Twitter. While many of the functions are for the sake of customization or increased convenience such as changing the application appearance, themes, or removal of ads, it also grants access to reader - a feature which allows users to edit text size to assist in legibility. 

## Udate on final project
Having settled on an issue, we started working on how to solve it this week. However, a large amount of our time was occupied with simply trying to find out where the issue lied in the code. It was a concern I had previously, but it's the first time any of us have worked on such a large piece of software and while we obviously don't have to understand it in its entirety to patch out bugs, locating where a feature is much less a but takes up a non negligible amount of time with such a large code base. Luckily by looking through the documentation as well as doing general research into how to use geometry nodes (the feature which had the bugs) we were able to find a good place to start, but finding the exact line of code we needed to modify was certainly not an easy task.




