---
layout: post
title: Week 12
---

# Week 12: FinalsFinalsFinalsFi
Hi! This is my week twelve blog post for Open Source Software Development! :) We're in finals

## (Not Final) Final Presentations!
This week each group did a brief presentation on where we currently are at with our final projects! I really enjoyed hearing about everyone’s different experiences. One thing in particular that was honestly relieving to hear about was other groups struggles in concerns to project setup. It took our group the entire first week to have blender downloaded and built on everyone’s laptops and even past that ran into occasional struggles building it as well as storage in general since we had a version that ran on Blender’s git and a GitHub clone to work on together, both taking up about 13 GB. I don’t quite remember which group it was who mentioned this but I do recall someone saying in their presentation that they stuck with their project because regardless of which one they settled on a bad laptop would still be a bad laptop - which unfortunately, isn’t wrong. Luckily we’re all able to run Blender (albeit with painfully long build times) but when starting the project, the concern of setup hadn’t even crossed my mind. That being said, it's a relief to hear it wasn’t a struggle specific to us. Another thing which stood out in particular when listening to everyone’s presentations was the differences in communication. With Blender, the chats are rather busy and as a result messages can get ignored pretty easily. Similarly, while my group hasn’t run into particularly disrespectful people, we have yet to be successful when asking for help. In contrast, it looks like the groups who chose smaller communities had an easier time communicating with members and were even able to familiarize themselves with some of the people they worked with. While either isn’t inherently better than the other, I feel the ease of communication certain projects offer would be rather beneficial to work on as a beginner in open source.

## Update on finals
I mentioned it in my previous blog, but last week our issue was unfortunately finished by another contributor while we were in the midst of working on it. However, we were able to pick a new issue and have been working on that one ever since. This one asks for additional key bindings which would allow you to use 'pg up' and 'pg dn' to jump through the search suggestions of blender's popup menu as opposed to navigating them one at a time with the up and down arrows. While most of the work we had done on our previous issue was research into how the feature functioned as well as searching for it in code, we were able to find where in the code we needed to be rather quickly this time! While we struggled to get the 'pg up' and 'pg dn' buttons working, we found where in the code it looks for inputs and managed to edit the already implemented ones such as the up and down keys to jump further than one suggestion! While it's not quite what we want, we're off to a much better start than with the previous issue we had, and it was really exciting to be able to pin down what exactly a chunk of code did in such a massive codebase like Blender. While it's unfortunate we lost our first issue, I'm optimistic about the work we have done for this one!




