---
layout: post
title: Week 13
---

# Week 13: Riju Khatri talk and final presentations
Hi! This is my week thirteen blog post for Open Source Software Development! :)

## Riju Khatri Talk
This week Riju Khatri, an NYU graduate student came to talk about her experience in OS as well as CS in general. I really enjoyed hearing an nyu student's experience within the field of CS! I especially enjoyed hearing about the process she went through when initially getting into open source communities. One thing in particular which stood out to me was her advice on how to contribute to a project - that being to use the software for a month before doing any contribution work, then very gradually join in - starting with looking at the documentation or patching small bugs as you familiarize yourself with the community bit by bit. I suppose that much should be obvious but hearing the breakdown I do wish it was something I could do for Blender, and something I plan to do more for any projects I want to contribute to moving forwards. I was familiar with Blender's software going in the the project, I actually had been using the software for a couple years (albeit for very basic models), but the big thing is that I feel with the time given, we didn't have much a chance to ease ourselves in, and with a project as large and complex as Blender, our dive straight into contributing was rather overwhelming. Furthermore, I feel that even with the time given, had we took our time more thoroughly familiarizing ourselves with the project, it may have saved time in the end even if it did mean we didn't get straight to contributing.
Overall, I really enjoyed hearing her journey with opensource. It sort of showed that sometimes a project might not click, whether that be because of being too busy or something about the project itself. And it was nice to see that even with an actual cs job, she was able to make some time to contribute to projects and was passionate about doing so. While contributions were rather daunting admittedly, I hope that I too will find projects that click for me, and be able to keep contributing to open source projects even once I graduate.

## Update on finals
After much searching through the code we finally managed to solve an issue (without it being stolen)! I mentioned it a bit previously but even though it was something as simple as key bindings it was so exciting to see our edits to the code actually effect the project - I don't think I've ever edited a codebase this massive much less for such a polished project so knowing I was able to figure out what something did then see my changes within the code was really exciting, even more so since we actually edited it correctly this week :') While it took quite a bit of digging we submitted a diff of our patch and it's now awaiting approval! aside from that my main task this week was looking into the documentation process which unfortunately was... less than successful. While it wasn't too hard to find directions on how to contribute to the user manual, what we wanted to do was add to the code documentation since we already did the work to understand the code. My initial searches all lead me back to blender manual contributions page and while I found there was a seperate email list for those with interest in documentation, not only did it look rather infrequently used but also appeared to be mainly for the manual as opposed to code documentation. Looking through past messages it pointed me back to a channel in blender's chat for documentation, but when I shot a message asking if we were allowed to discuss code documentation and whether or not the general public could contribute to that I was unfortunately ignored. It's something I mentioned a bit previously but I feel that blenders incredibly large community size certainly has both pros and cons. While it does mean you tend to get a reply within the day if not in hours, if you have a more complex question it tends to get glossed over. I imagine its in part because its hard to familiarize yourself with people but also as a result of the fact the Blender is such a massive project where its rather infeasible to help every single newbie, and has a large community that if one person can't solve an issue someone else can near immediately. I feel it both results in a very powerful software which is contantly being improved, but does make it rather challenging to contribute should someone have never worked on an open source/larger project before.




