---
layout: post
title: Week 11
---

# Week 11: Why businesses support opensource
Hi! This is my week eleven blog post for Open Source Software Development! :) A tragedy has occured within group 10 but we are doing our best

## Opensource in Buisiness
This week we discussed more on why businesses may want to use open source practices as opposed to more traditional methods. As an artist and a very big fan of animation myself, I really enjoyed hearing the ways in which cs comes into play when developing films as well as how opensource has impacted the software used in the industry. One thing in particular that stood out during our discussion in class was when someone suggested that the reason why different companies aren't apprehensive about sharing software is because what they're worried about isn't so much posessing superior software to other studios, but rather the best software possible to make what they really want to - films. I felt that it was a really good example of how oftentimes, opensource better benefits the community as a whole, as well as why a company would still chose it even if it meant sharing their advances with the "competition". Another thing which I found particularly interesting was the discussion on innersource. While it was one of the practices mentioned previously, it was very interesting to see how companies applied it in practice, and why they found it benefitted them best. Particularly, this idea that in many traditional workplaces, there's this understanding that control over the process leads to success, and how moving to open source feels as if you're giving away that control (and in some ways is just that). While the benefits of opensource aren't lost on me (I'd certainly hope they aren't after a whole semester of it) I could certainly understand the hesitance moving over to a system that operates so differently. It's nice seeing that inner source can function as a sort of middle ground to "trick" people into participating in more open source practices as they mentioned in the video. 

## Update on finals
I feel that we made really good progress learning exactly how geometry nodes function, where in the code they are, and what does what! ...Which is very unfortunate because somebody has managed to take up the issue and solve it entirely while we worked on that understanding. :') That being said we had a few other issues listed out and are in the process of going through them and deciding which we want to work on. I'm relatively confident we'll have something to show by presentations, but admiteddly am rather wary of the fact that the easier to solve issues can't be claimed and as a result are very easily stolen judging from our experience and the other issues we've seen. With that in mind, we're doing our best to find an issue which doesn't involve more complex features (ie. geometry nodes) which we'd have to fully understand in order to work on the project.




